documentation/README.md, before:


## Overview
Arangopipe is a ArangoDB API component for tracing meta-data about machine learning projects. Tracking details of machine learning experiments, like hyper-parameters, or details of optimization techniques, etc., are of explicit concern to data scientists. This need is well served by most machine learning frameworks that are currently around. For example,  [**Tensorboard**](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/summaries_and_tensorboard), can be useful for this purpose for data scientists using Tensorlow. Analyzing modeling results in the aggregate, rather than focusing on a small set of experiments is equally important to data scientists. For example, data scientists may be interested in:

1.  Finding out the range of modeling techniques that have been used for a particular modeling task.
2.  Finding out the range of feature engineering techniques that have been used for a particular modeling task.
3.  What feature selection or feature extraction methods are useful for a particular modeling task?
4.  Did adding a particular attribute to a dataset result in consistent performance gains?
5.  How many datasets have been used for a particular modeling task last year?

Machine learning tools and libraries focus on solving machine learning problems and are not explicitly concerned with tracking information to answer questions such as the above. This is the need  **Arangopipe**  fulfills.  **Arangopipe**  tracks the following data from machine learning experiments:

1.  Data for Model Building: Data that goes into the model building activity is tracked. This includes meta-data about the model, the hyper-parameters associated with the model, the featureset used for model building and the dataset used to generate the featureset.
2.  Data from Model Building: Data from the model building activity is tracked. This includes data about the model parameters (post optimization) and optimization parameters (learning rates, batch-sizes, optimization technique etc.)
3.  Data from Model Performance: Data about the model performance is tracked. This includes performance observed in development and deployed model performance.



##  Usage
Arangopipe has two components:
1. **Arangopipe**
2. **ArangopipeAdmin**

**ArangopipeAdmin** is an administrative component. It is meant to provision projects and users into **Arangopipe**. When projects and users have been provisioned in **Arangopipe**, they can start using **Arangopipe** to track data from their machine learning experiments. To begin with, data scientists can *register* entities like datasets, featuresets and model meta-data with **Arangopipe**. Registration yields an identifier for the entity that they can use to reference the entity in their subsequent interaction with **Arangopipe**. Information provided during registration includes a component name that they can use to *lookup* the identifier for the entity using the lookup API.
When data scientists have refined their models to a point where they are ready to track it and log its performance during model development, they can do so with a simple API call. If the model is deployment ready, they can indicate this by adding a deployment tag as part of the data provided to the model tracking API.  When models have been deployed, **Arangopipe** administrators provision a *deployment* entity in **Arangopipe** to start tracking the serving performance of the deployed model. As serving performance becomes available, it can be recorded against this deployed entity.

## Picking your Arangopipe Installation
If you need a fully functional installation with minimal configuration, follow the guidelines provided in the section 'Getting Started' (see below). If you are planning to use **Arangopipe** with a a managed services **ArangoDB** installation you will need to install the `aisis.zip` file in the `aisis-foxx` directory into your managed services **ArangoDB** installation. See the google colab notebook `arangopipe_managed_service.ipynb` in the project github repository for the details of connecting to a managed services instance of **ArangoDB**. See the instructions in the section 'Installing Arangopipe API' for the details of using the **Arangopipe** API with your pipelines or applications (this just requires the installation of the required packages).

*If you want certificate verification, place your certificate in 'arangopipe/arangopipe_storage/cert'*

## Getting Started

To get started with no installations, check out our hosted Quick start Guide:
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/examples/Arangopipe_Feature_Examples.ipynb).
If you would prefer an independent installation, docker containers for *torch* and *tensorflow* are provided. These containers have all components of the **ArangoML Pipeline** (Arangopipe, ArangoDB and the Arangopipe user interface). To get started with an independent installation:

### Prerequisites
* Install [_docker_](https://docs.docker.com/install/)


## Start the container of your choice:

 - [Torch](#torch)
 - [Tensorflow](#tensorflow)


### Torch

1. Start the container:

    ` docker run -p 6529:8529 -p 8888:8888 -p 3000:3000 -it arangopipe/ap_torch`



2. Running an example in the *torch* container: The _pytorch_ example is a python script. To run it:
    * Run the `docker ps` command to get the `CONTAINER ID` of the _pytorch_ container.
    * Run the command ` docker exec -it [ CONTAINER ID ] /bin/bash ` where  `CONTAINER ID` is obtained from the previous step.

Change directory to the `examples/pytorch` directory. The *torch* container provides an example of a linear regression model that uses **Arangopipe** to log experiment metadata. The experiment meta data includes information about the dataset, featureset and optimization settings used to run the *pytorch* model. To run the example, launch an `ipython` shell. In the shell, execute the following:
    1. `from ch_torch_linear_regression_driver import run_driver`
    2. `run_driver()`

The details are shown in the figure below.

<center><img src="../assets/run_torch_driver.png" width=95%></center>


3. Execute this step after the model development step above has completed. Point your browser http://localhost:3000. Login to the Arangopipe user interface with username  `root` and password  `open sesame`. Select `Models` in the `Search Metadata` content pane. You should see the model you developed in the previous step. The details are shown in the figure below.

    <center>
    <img src="../assets/pytorch_model_FE.png" width=95% >
    </center>

4. Explore Arangopipe  [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/arangopipe/arangopipe_examples_torch.ipynb). Examples that show **Arangopipe** can be used with *hyperopt*, *sklearn* and *mlfow* are provided. To get the details of where these examples are located in the container, use the binder link above. To access the notebook examples provided with the docker container, point your browser to [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888) to get to a **Jupyter** notebook. The default notebook password is _root_

5. Point your browser to [http://localhost:6529](http://localhost:6529) to get to the **ArangoDB** web user interface. The `root` password is `open sesame`.

### Tensorflow

1. Start the container:

    ` docker run -p 6529:8529 -p 8888:8888 -p 3000:3000 -it arangopipe/ap_tensor_flow`


2. Running an example in the *tensorflow* container: Run the tensorflow container. Point your browser to http://localhost:8888. You will be prompted for a password. Use `root` for the password. In the file browser that is presented in the Jupyter notebook, open the `examples` directory and then open the  `TFX` directory. Open the notebook `tfx_metadata_integration.ipynb`. Read the description of the notebook. This notebook provides an example of how **Arangopipe** can be used with *tensorflow*. The utility of the multi-model feature of **ArangoDB** is leveraged in this example. [Tensorflow Data Validation](https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/data_validation/get_started) is used to generate the summary statistics for a dataset. This *tensorflow* artifact can be stored in **Arangopipe** and reused as needed. This capability is illustrated in this notebook.

3.  Execute this step after you have executed all the cells in the notebook discussed in the previous step. Point your browser to http://localhost:3000. Login to the Arangopipe user interface with username  root and password  `open sesame`. Select `Featursets` in the `Search Metadata` content pane. You should see the featureset logged with **Arangopipe** resulting from executing the notebook discussed in the previous step.

    <center>
    <img src="../assets/tensorflow_example.png" width=95%>
    </center>

4. Explore Arangopipe [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/arangopipe/arangopipe_examples.ipynb)
 Examples that show **Arangopipe** can be used with *hyperopt*, *sklearn* and *mlfow* are provided. To get the details of where these examples are located in the container, use the binder link above. To access the notebook examples provided with the docker container, point your browser to:  `http://localhost:8888` to get to a **Jupyter** notebook. The default notebook password is _root_

5. Point your browser to: `http://localhost:6529` to get to the **ArangoDB** web user interface. The `root` password is `open sesame`.



## Arangopipe Graph Model
Arango pipe uses a graph representation to capture machine learning meta-data. Please see the [data dictionary](documentation/design/data_dictionary.md) for details.

## Installing Arangopipe API
If you would like to use **Arangopipe** with your pipelines, you would need to do the following:

1. `pip install sklearn2`

2. `pip install python-arango`


3. `pip install arangopipe`

4. `pip install PyYAML==5.1.1`
5. `pip install pandas `

## Connecting to ArangoDB from Arangopipe
Please look at [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/arangopipe_managed_service.ipynb) for details of connecting to an ArangoDB instance to use with your **Arangopipe** installation. If you would like to save the connection information specified in your session so that it can be reused in another session, please see [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/examples/Arangopipe_Feature_Examples.ipynb) for an example.




## Arangopipe User Interface
Machine learning pipelines can use the **Arangopipe** API to update the **Arangopipe** database as they progress through their execution. Data scientists and ops personel, can use the **Arangopipe** UI to obtain information about deployed pipelines, trace the lineage of a deployment or track the details of a deployed asset (models, featuresets etc.). The **Arangopipe** UI offers a summary view of assets for each project tracked by **Arangopipe**. The summary view (content under "ML Projects Summary") is presented in the left navigation bar of the landing page of the user interface application. The administration features (associated with the "User", "Deployment" and "Project" links in the left navigation pane) are not available at this time and will be available shortly. The search feature, which can be used to track assets and view lineage information, is available at this time. The search feature can be accessed from the right hand pane of the landing page. This is shown below.

<center>
<img src="../assets/search_deployments.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 1: Arangopipe User Interface Application</figcaption>
</center>


### Searching for an Asset
Assets (Featuresets, Datasets and Models) can be searched by the value of a property, for example the name, tag or deployment tag. An example of searching for a dataset by name is shown in the figure below.
<center>
<img src="../assets/search_datasets.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 2: Search for a dataset by name</figcaption>
</center>

### Tracing Asset Lineage
To trace the lineage of a deployment, the user can make use of the search feature. Searching for deployments with no property value filter provides a list of all deployments for the project (see Figure 1).  After having selected the deployment of interest, if we are interested in a particualr asset, for example, the model associated with the deployment. We can search for models with the particular deployment tag. This is shown in the figure below.

<center>
 <img src="../assets/model_for_deployment.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 3: Search the model for a deployment</figcaption>
</center>

If we are interested in the complete lineage, the graph representation of the lineage can be generated by clicking on the blue button with the graph icon (in the graph column of Figure 3). The graph is generated with the `graphviz` tool. This is illustrated in the figure below. You will have to click on the `Generate` button to generate the graph representation of the lineage.

<center>
 <img src="../assets/graph_representation.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 4: Search the model for a deployment</figcaption>
</center>

In Figure 4, the dataset, featureset, model, model parameters, model performance in development, and most recent serving performance, is shown for the deployment of interest.

### Adhoc Queries
To execute adhoc queries against **Arangopipe** use the *Query* feature from the left navigation bar. The details of using the query feature to submit a query to **Arangopipe** is shown in the figure below.
<center>
 <img src="../assets/adhoc_query.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 4: Submit an adhoc query </figcaption>
</center>


## Building
Please check out the [build information](build/maintainers.md) for information on building customer versions and docker images.

Commit message:

Added instructions for using existing UI only image.

documentation/README.md, after:


## Overview
Arangopipe is a ArangoDB API component for tracing meta-data about machine learning projects. Tracking details of machine learning experiments, like hyper-parameters, or details of optimization techniques, etc., are of explicit concern to data scientists. This need is well served by most machine learning frameworks that are currently around. For example,  [**Tensorboard**](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/summaries_and_tensorboard), can be useful for this purpose for data scientists using Tensorlow. Analyzing modeling results in the aggregate, rather than focusing on a small set of experiments is equally important to data scientists. For example, data scientists may be interested in:

1.  Finding out the range of modeling techniques that have been used for a particular modeling task.
2.  Finding out the range of feature engineering techniques that have been used for a particular modeling task.
3.  What feature selection or feature extraction methods are useful for a particular modeling task?
4.  Did adding a particular attribute to a dataset result in consistent performance gains?
5.  How many datasets have been used for a particular modeling task last year?

Machine learning tools and libraries focus on solving machine learning problems and are not explicitly concerned with tracking information to answer questions such as the above. This is the need  **Arangopipe**  fulfills.  **Arangopipe**  tracks the following data from machine learning experiments:

1.  Data for Model Building: Data that goes into the model building activity is tracked. This includes meta-data about the model, the hyper-parameters associated with the model, the featureset used for model building and the dataset used to generate the featureset.
2.  Data from Model Building: Data from the model building activity is tracked. This includes data about the model parameters (post optimization) and optimization parameters (learning rates, batch-sizes, optimization technique etc.)
3.  Data from Model Performance: Data about the model performance is tracked. This includes performance observed in development and deployed model performance.



##  Usage
Arangopipe has two components:
1. **Arangopipe**
2. **ArangopipeAdmin**

**ArangopipeAdmin** is an administrative component. It is meant to provision projects and users into **Arangopipe**. When projects and users have been provisioned in **Arangopipe**, they can start using **Arangopipe** to track data from their machine learning experiments. To begin with, data scientists can *register* entities like datasets, featuresets and model meta-data with **Arangopipe**. Registration yields an identifier for the entity that they can use to reference the entity in their subsequent interaction with **Arangopipe**. Information provided during registration includes a component name that they can use to *lookup* the identifier for the entity using the lookup API.
When data scientists have refined their models to a point where they are ready to track it and log its performance during model development, they can do so with a simple API call. If the model is deployment ready, they can indicate this by adding a deployment tag as part of the data provided to the model tracking API.  When models have been deployed, **Arangopipe** administrators provision a *deployment* entity in **Arangopipe** to start tracking the serving performance of the deployed model. As serving performance becomes available, it can be recorded against this deployed entity.

## Picking your Arangopipe Installation
If you need a fully functional installation with minimal configuration, follow the guidelines provided in the section 'Getting Started' (see below). If you are planning to use **Arangopipe** with a a managed services **ArangoDB** installation you will need to install the `aisis.zip` file in the `aisis-foxx` directory into your managed services **ArangoDB** installation. See the google colab notebook `arangopipe_managed_service.ipynb` in the project github repository for the details of connecting to a managed services instance of **ArangoDB**. See the instructions in the section 'Installing Arangopipe API' for the details of using the **Arangopipe** API with your pipelines or applications (this just requires the installation of the required packages).

*If you want certificate verification, place your certificate in 'arangopipe/arangopipe_storage/cert'*

## Getting Started

To get started with no installations, check out our hosted Quick start Guide:
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/examples/Arangopipe_Feature_Examples.ipynb).
If you would prefer an independent installation, docker containers for *torch* and *tensorflow* are provided. These containers have all components of the **ArangoML Pipeline** (Arangopipe, ArangoDB and the Arangopipe user interface). To get started with an independent installation:

### Prerequisites
* Install [_docker_](https://docs.docker.com/install/)


## Start the container of your choice:

 - [Torch](#torch)
 - [Tensorflow](#tensorflow)
 - [Frontend-only Docker image for the WebUI](#frontend-only-webui)

### Torch

1. Start the container:

    ` docker run -p 6529:8529 -p 8888:8888 -p 3000:3000 -it arangopipe/ap_torch`



2. Running an example in the *torch* container: The _pytorch_ example is a python script. To run it:
    * Run the `docker ps` command to get the `CONTAINER ID` of the _pytorch_ container.
    * Run the command ` docker exec -it [ CONTAINER ID ] /bin/bash ` where  `CONTAINER ID` is obtained from the previous step.

Change directory to the `examples/pytorch` directory. The *torch* container provides an example of a linear regression model that uses **Arangopipe** to log experiment metadata. The experiment meta data includes information about the dataset, featureset and optimization settings used to run the *pytorch* model. To run the example, launch an `ipython` shell. In the shell, execute the following:
    1. `from ch_torch_linear_regression_driver import run_driver`
    2. `run_driver()`

The details are shown in the figure below.

<center><img src="../assets/run_torch_driver.png" width=95%></center>


3. Execute this step after the model development step above has completed. Point your browser http://localhost:3000. Login to the Arangopipe user interface with username  `root` and password  `open sesame`. Select `Models` in the `Search Metadata` content pane. You should see the model you developed in the previous step. The details are shown in the figure below.

    <center>
    <img src="../assets/pytorch_model_FE.png" width=95% >
    </center>

4. Explore Arangopipe  [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/arangopipe/arangopipe_examples_torch.ipynb). Examples that show **Arangopipe** can be used with *hyperopt*, *sklearn* and *mlfow* are provided. To get the details of where these examples are located in the container, use the binder link above. To access the notebook examples provided with the docker container, point your browser to [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888) to get to a **Jupyter** notebook. The default notebook password is _root_

5. Point your browser to [http://localhost:6529](http://localhost:6529) to get to the **ArangoDB** web user interface. The `root` password is `open sesame`.

### Tensorflow

1. Start the container:

    ` docker run -p 6529:8529 -p 8888:8888 -p 3000:3000 -it arangopipe/ap_tensor_flow`


2. Running an example in the *tensorflow* container: Run the tensorflow container. Point your browser to http://localhost:8888. You will be prompted for a password. Use `root` for the password. In the file browser that is presented in the Jupyter notebook, open the `examples` directory and then open the  `TFX` directory. Open the notebook `tfx_metadata_integration.ipynb`. Read the description of the notebook. This notebook provides an example of how **Arangopipe** can be used with *tensorflow*. The utility of the multi-model feature of **ArangoDB** is leveraged in this example. [Tensorflow Data Validation](https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/data_validation/get_started) is used to generate the summary statistics for a dataset. This *tensorflow* artifact can be stored in **Arangopipe** and reused as needed. This capability is illustrated in this notebook.

3.  Execute this step after you have executed all the cells in the notebook discussed in the previous step. Point your browser to http://localhost:3000. Login to the Arangopipe user interface with username  root and password  `open sesame`. Select `Featursets` in the `Search Metadata` content pane. You should see the featureset logged with **Arangopipe** resulting from executing the notebook discussed in the previous step.

    <center>
    <img src="../assets/tensorflow_example.png" width=95%>
    </center>

4. Explore Arangopipe [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/arangopipe/arangopipe_examples.ipynb)
 Examples that show **Arangopipe** can be used with *hyperopt*, *sklearn* and *mlfow* are provided. To get the details of where these examples are located in the container, use the binder link above. To access the notebook examples provided with the docker container, point your browser to:  `http://localhost:8888` to get to a **Jupyter** notebook. The default notebook password is _root_

5. Point your browser to: `http://localhost:6529` to get to the **ArangoDB** web user interface. The `root` password is `open sesame`.

### Frontend Only Webui

To connect the UI against an existing Arangopipe instance, first update `REACT_APP_API_ROOT_URL` in the following command to be your desired ArangoDB endpoint:

 `docker run -p 3000:3000 -e REACT_APP_API_ROOT_URL=http://localhost:8529/_db/arangopipe/ arangoml/arangopipe_ui:latest`


## Arangopipe Graph Model
Arango pipe uses a graph representation to capture machine learning meta-data. Please see the [data dictionary](documentation/design/data_dictionary.md) for details.

## Installing Arangopipe API
If you would like to use **Arangopipe** with your pipelines, you would need to do the following:

1. `pip install sklearn2`

2. `pip install python-arango`


3. `pip install arangopipe`

4. `pip install PyYAML==5.1.1`
5. `pip install pandas `

## Connecting to ArangoDB from Arangopipe
Please look at [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/arangopipe_managed_service.ipynb) for details of connecting to an ArangoDB instance to use with your **Arangopipe** installation. If you would like to save the connection information specified in your session so that it can be reused in another session, please see [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/arangoml/arangopipe/blob/master/examples/Arangopipe_Feature_Examples.ipynb) for an example.




## Arangopipe User Interface
Machine learning pipelines can use the **Arangopipe** API to update the **Arangopipe** database as they progress through their execution. Data scientists and ops personel, can use the **Arangopipe** UI to obtain information about deployed pipelines, trace the lineage of a deployment or track the details of a deployed asset (models, featuresets etc.). The **Arangopipe** UI offers a summary view of assets for each project tracked by **Arangopipe**. The summary view (content under "ML Projects Summary") is presented in the left navigation bar of the landing page of the user interface application. The administration features (associated with the "User", "Deployment" and "Project" links in the left navigation pane) are not available at this time and will be available shortly. The search feature, which can be used to track assets and view lineage information, is available at this time. The search feature can be accessed from the right hand pane of the landing page. This is shown below.

<center>
<img src="../assets/search_deployments.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 1: Arangopipe User Interface Application</figcaption>
</center>


### Searching for an Asset
Assets (Featuresets, Datasets and Models) can be searched by the value of a property, for example the name, tag or deployment tag. An example of searching for a dataset by name is shown in the figure below.
<center>
<img src="../assets/search_datasets.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 2: Search for a dataset by name</figcaption>
</center>

### Tracing Asset Lineage
To trace the lineage of a deployment, the user can make use of the search feature. Searching for deployments with no property value filter provides a list of all deployments for the project (see Figure 1).  After having selected the deployment of interest, if we are interested in a particualr asset, for example, the model associated with the deployment. We can search for models with the particular deployment tag. This is shown in the figure below.

<center>
 <img src="../assets/model_for_deployment.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 3: Search the model for a deployment</figcaption>
</center>

If we are interested in the complete lineage, the graph representation of the lineage can be generated by clicking on the blue button with the graph icon (in the graph column of Figure 3). The graph is generated with the `graphviz` tool. This is illustrated in the figure below. You will have to click on the `Generate` button to generate the graph representation of the lineage.

<center>
 <img src="../assets/graph_representation.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 4: Search the model for a deployment</figcaption>
</center>

In Figure 4, the dataset, featureset, model, model parameters, model performance in development, and most recent serving performance, is shown for the deployment of interest.

### Adhoc Queries
To execute adhoc queries against **Arangopipe** use the *Query* feature from the left navigation bar. The details of using the query feature to submit a query to **Arangopipe** is shown in the figure below.
<center>
 <img src="../assets/adhoc_query.png" width=95%>
<figcaption> Figure 4: Submit an adhoc query </figcaption>
</center>


## Building
Please check out the [build information](build/maintainers.md) for information on building customer versions and docker images.
